Q1. Both main memory and secondary storage are types of memory. Describe the difference between the two.
A1. Main memory is also called volatile memory which means that the data loaded om main memory is erased once the system is rebooted or turned off. On the other hand secondary memory is non volatile memory the data on it is not erased even if the system is turned off or restarted.
Q2. What type of memory is usually volatile?
A2. Main memory is usually the volatile memory.
Q3. What is the difference between operating system software and application software?
A2. Operating system software is designed as a bridge between system and user on the other hand application software is designed to fulfill a specific task.
Q4. Why must programs written in a high-level language be translated into machine language before they can be run?
A4. The programs written in high level language must be translated into machine language because high level language is human understandable language and is easy to write but th system can only understand machine language.
Q5. Why is it easier to write a program in a high-level language than in machine language?
A5. it is easier to write program in high level language because high level languages are near to human language and can be learned and understood easily than machine language which is only understandable by the computer.
Q6. What is a source file?
A6. The Java programming statements written by the programmer are called source code, and the file they are saved in is called a source file.
Q7. What is the difference between a syntax error and a logical error?
A7. The main difference between a syntax error and logical error is that a syntax error is occurs when there is a mistake in the syntax of the programme written and a logical error occurs where there is flaw in the codes logic.
Q8. What is an algorithm?
A8. An algorithm is a well defined set of instructions put together to solve a problem. It provides a clear approach to solve a problem and achieve goals.
Q9. What is a compiler?
A9. A compiler is a programme that translates high level language into machine language a medium that is understandable by the computer.
Q10. What is the difference between an application and an applet?
A10. An  application is a stand alone programme designed to run on your computer system while an app let is a small program designed to run on the internet.
Q11. Why are Java applets safe to download and execute?
A11. Java applets are designed to be safe because they run in a controlled environment and have limited access to system resources and are subject to a security manager that enforces strict rules.
Q12. What must a computer have in order for it to execute Java programs?
A12. A computer needs the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) to run Java programs, compatible operating system, sufficient system resources and correct configurations.
Q13. What is the difference between machine language code and byte code?
A13. Machine language code is directly executable by a computer's CPU and varies by hardware. Bytecode is an intermediary code executed by a virtual machine for portability across platforms.
Q14. Why does byte code make Java a portable language?
A14. byte code makes Java a portable language because a byte code written on windows can be edited and executed on mac and similarly it can be edited and executed in android. Byte code written on any platform can be edited and executed in any other platform which supports java.
Q15. Is encapsulation a characteristic of procedural or object-oriented programming?
A15. OOP addresses the problem of code/data separation through encapsulation and data hiding. Encapsulation refers to the combining of data and code into a single object.
Q16. Why should an object hide its data?
A16. When an object’s internal data is hidden from outside code and access to that data is restricted to the object’s methods, the data is protected from accidental corruption.
Q17. What part of an object forms an interface through which outside code may access the object’s data?
A17. The methods of an object form the interface for accessing the object's data.
Q18. What type of program do you use to write Java source code?
A18. You can use a text editor or Integrated Development Environment (IDE) to write Java source code. Popular IDEs for Java development include Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, and NetBeans.
Q19. Will the Java compiler translate a source file that contains syntax errors?
A19. No, syntax errors in a Java source file will prevent successful compilation.
Q20. What does the Java compiler translate Java source code to?
A20. The Java compiler translates Java source code into bytecode, which is a platform independent and intermediate representation of the code.
Q21. Assuming you are using the JDK, what command would you type at the operating system command prompt to compile the program LabAssignment.java?
A21. Here's the command you would type at the operating system command prompt: javac LabAssignment.java.
Q22. Assuming there are no syntax errors in the LabAssignment.java program when it is compiled, answer the following questions.
     a. What file will be produced?
     b. What will the file contain?
     c. What command would you type at the operating system command prompt to run
     the program?
A22. a. When the "LabAssignment.java" program is successfully compiled, a file named "LabAssignment.class" will be produced.
     b. The "LabAssignment.class" file will contain the compiled bytecode instructions that correspond to the Java code in the "LabAssignment.java" source file.
     c. We will use the command ``java LabAssistant``.